**Preview**

For my graphics, I found an icon set on The Noun Project (cited in assets.md) that I wanted to use to demonstrate the idea of bodily variation as something that surrounds designers’ work. I tried to establish something between a pattern and flowing rhythm. The bodies don’t repeat in an expected way, but they’re consistent in style because of their shared creator. With the “designing for” text, I wanted the blue letters to seem like they’re trying to substitute for the parts of the icon that they’re also erasing. (I’m wondering how obvious this is right away?) I want to give the sense that "designing for" often leads to erasure of the actual individuals. Comparatively, “design with” sits comfortably where there is space alongside the icons, using negative space and scale to draw the eye. I used a sans serif font (Avenir Next) to be more readable for those with dyslexia. I also tested my color palette to make sure that the contrast of every color against the background conformed to at least WCAG 2.0 Level AA standards, especially the “design with” text. I also looked at the design in grayscale to try to see if the red/blue contrasted enough in tone to be differentiated by those with monochromacy. The red/blue palette was picked based on colors that would be distinguishable across different types of colorblindness. With respect to color palette, the main thing I was wondering is whether I chose the right text to be red versus black. I want the “design with” to be the dominant element of the piece, with the “designing for” being the subdominant focal point, but I’m not sure if the red catches the eye first and overrides the scale factor of “design with” to make “designing for” more dominant.

As a next step, I still need to add a text description to the metadata to give a text alternative for interpreting the project.
