**Visual Rhetoric Reflection**

Creating this visual rhetoric piece was my first time working with Photoshop, and I am honestly quite happy with what I feel I accomplished. A lot of the work that went into creating it was done behind the scenes. I started off in the first few days doing research on accessibility standards and finding tools to measure things like contrast. Building a color palette, even though it only consisted of 4 colors, proved to be a lot of work because of the challenge of making sure the colors contrasted enough from both the background and from each other (especially with the red and blue, which needed to be different enough in tone that they were distinguishable in grayscale).

I was excited when I found the collection of body icons on the Noun Project, because I think it gave the project a sense of stylistic uniformity that allowed for the bodily variation of the icons to be highlighted. When making the pattern (and also working with the text), I found that creating the layer groups made it much easier to control the consistency of alignment and keep track of which copies of icons were next to each other.

With regard to workshop feedback, the comment I got from all three peer reviews was on the not-equal sign making my message confusing. Additionally, there were notes on the spacing of the first part of my message. I was forcing the spacing a bit to try to make some of the letters line up as heads for the icons but looking at it in light of those comments made me aware of how awkward it was. I altered the wording of the slogan in a way that made the alignment more natural and removed the not-equal sign from the message.

In response to the broad advice given to the class, I added a follow-up source. I made the text small, but kept it well above minimum font size from an accessibility standpoint. This definitely helped my argument have more directionality in terms of giving viewers a way to do something about their design practices if they feel compelled.

Breaking down the baseline criteria, I feel like I was able to meet each point on the list. For example, I used largely color, size, and negative space to establish design hierarchy and guide viewer attention. I made my dominant element, the “Design With” text, bright red, the largest element, and also surrounded it with the largest amount of negative space in the project. For the subdominant element, the remaining “Design For” piece of the message, I used color distinction. While the background and icon pattern were both shades of blue, I used black to distinguish it. The pattern/visual rhythm of the body icons in the background, along with the small tagline at the bottom, were then my subordinate portion of the hierarchy. I think, especially with the feedback from workshop, I was able to clearly articulate my message through the text, which I displayed in a clean sans-serif that reflects the minimalism of the body icons. For sources, I created a list in my CREDITS.md file of my repository, as well as including a small citation in the bottom right of my actual .psd file. In my project, I had 3-4 layers interacting with each other at various points, between the background, white-out, body pattern, and text layer groupings. For the white-out layer, one tool I used beyond the select, move, and text tools was the brush tool. Some of my icons imported with a strange outline, so I used a layer above the pattern group and a brush matched the background color to “white-out” those outlines in a non-destructive manner. Lastly, with commit messages, I made sure to include detailed messages so I could track when certain design choices were being tested (like when I was testing the readability of incorporating the cane into the W of “answer”).

I think I also met some of the goals from the aspirational criteria list. I kept my layers very organized with labeling (lining the names up with how they were named on The Noun Project to assist with tracking used assets) and layer groups (to keep my pattern in line). I also used folders and a navigation note in my README.md to make my repository navigable. While I did have more than 3 overlapping layers, a lot of the tools with layer blending didn’t apply to my project. I experimented briefly with varying layer opacity, but overall, anything that made the project more visually complex tended to make it less accessible, which I felt like went against the core argument of my project. In terms of accessibility, that was largely what drove my design choices. My color palette was picked to avoid problematic color combinations for people with colorblindness, my font was a sans-serif typeface, emphasized only with bold, to be more readable for those with dyslexia (I also picked a light background that wasn’t bright white for the same reason). As previously stated, I also made sure my colors contrasted in tone as well as shade to make the design accessible for monochromacy. I put a text description in the metadata of the file to offer a text alternative to the image. To check that my message and audience was clear, I asked a friend to look at the piece and respond with what she thought my intentions were and she said the following:

“I think the message is that for design to be inclusive, it should be designed with the intended users. Designing for people without their input erases their voice and is not truly accessible.
I think the argument is directed at other designers to spread awareness. People in the field may be oblivious to the ways their designs are impacting other communities, and they should consider that before creating their designs.”

As a piece of nuance to the design that perhaps falls somewhere between the subdominant and subordinate elements (trying to make my work reveal itself gradually) are the bodies with heads replaced by the letters of the “Design For” text. I was trying to make a visual representation of how paternalistic design often overlooks the individuality of people that the designs are for and erases them. Additionally, there is a heart shape in the negative space around “Design With”, to emphasize the humanity the guides this approach to design.

Overall, I think this project taught me a lot about the complexity of making a final product simple.
